[DOCS] Streamlined install of 3 node cluster for GS tutorial (#45009)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/getting-started.asciidoc

[[getting-started-install]]
== Get {es} up and running

To take {es} for a test drive, you can create a one-click cloud deployment
on the https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service/signup[Elasticsearch Service],
or <<run-elasticsearch-local, set up a basic {es} cluster>> on your own Linux,
macOS, or Windows machine.

> 

Reviewer: We may want to note here that we're creating a three-node cluster with a very brief explanation of why that's beneficial.

Author: Fixed.

[float]
[[run-elasticsearch-local]]
=== Run {es} locally on Linux, macOS, or Windows

When you create a cluster on the Elasticsearch Service, you automatically

> get a three node cluster. To run a three node {es} cluster locally,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
get a three-node cluster. To run a three-node {es} cluster locally,
```

Author: Fixed.

./elasticsearch
--------------------------------------------------
+
Windows:
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
--------------------------------------------------
cd %PROGRAMFILES%\Elastic\Elasticsearch\bin
.\elasticsearch.exe
--------------------------------------------------
+
You now have a single-node {es} cluster up and running!

. Start two more instances of {es} so you can see how a typical multi-node
cluster behaves. You need to specify unique data and log paths
for each node.
+
Linux and macOS:
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
--------------------------------------------------
./elasticsearch -Epath.data=data2 -Epath.logs=log2
./elasticsearch -Epath.data=data3 -Epath.logs=log3
--------------------------------------------------
+
Windows:
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
--------------------------------------------------
.\elasticsearch.exe -Epath.data=data2 -Epath.logs=log2
.\elasticsearch.exe -Epath.data=data3 -Epath.logs=log3
--------------------------------------------------
+
The default configuration enables the new nodes to automatically join the
cluster with the first node because they are all running locally. Each node

> is automatically assigned a unique ID.

Reviewer: This paragraph seems a little awkward.

Suggestion:

> By default, new nodes automatically join the same local cluster. {es} automatically assigns each node a unique ID.

Author: Fixed

> . Use the `_cat/health` API to verify that your three node cluster is up running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Use the <<cat-health,cat health>> API to verify that your three node cluster is up running.
```

Author: I changed the formatting, but opted not to link it in the interest of minimizing the opportunities to go off into the weeds.

The `cat` APIs return information about your cluster and indices in a
format that's easier to read than raw JSON.
+
You can interact directly with your cluster by submitting HTTP requests to
the {es} REST API. Most of the examples in this guide enable you to copy the
appropriate cURL command and submit the request to your local {es} instance from
the command line. If you have Kibana installed and running, you can also
open Kibana and submit requests through the Dev Console.
+
TIP: When you're ready to start using {es} in your own applications, you'll
want to check out the
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/index.html[{es} language
clients].

> +

Reviewer: I'd consider moving the "You can interact..." paragraph to the beginning of this list item.

Author: I opted to leave it to emphasize the step action.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_cat/health?v
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
+

> The response should indicate that the status of the _elasticsearch_ cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response should indicate the cluster is `green` and has three nodes:
```

Author: I opted to leave it to emphasize that "green" is the status.

> is _green_ and it has three nodes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is _green_ and it has three nodes:
```

+
[source,txt]
--------------------------------------------------
epoch      timestamp cluster       status node.total node.data shards pri relo init unassign pending_tasks max_task_wait_time active_shards_percent
1565052807 00:53:27  elasticsearch green           3         3      6   3    0    0        0             0                  -                100.0%
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/1565052807 00:53:27  elasticsearch/\\d+ \\d+:\\d+:\\d+ integTest/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/3         3      6   3/\\d+         \\d+      \\d+   \\d+/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/0             0                  -/0             \\d+                  -/]
// TESTRESPONSE[non_json]
+

> NOTE: The cluster status will remain yellow if you are only running a single

Reviewer: Not sure if this note is needed since we're explicitly creating a three-node cluster.

Author: I opted to leave it. This isn't strictly necessary...if folks follow the instructions. But, it's pretty common to wonder why the status of a freshly-started cluster is yellow.
